OK so now we're going to start converting our current application to look more like the final application
before we do that.
We've got to take a look at this idea of components.
So right now we do know that are only component is the app component.
Right.
We've only written this one single class based component which is our app.
However in react what we want to do is we want to be able to break our code into smaller reusable pieces
that are only focused on one responsibility.
Right.
So when we look at this we see that this card seems to be its own component.
This search bar is its own component and in a way because this card is itself it doesn't really care
about the other cards around it.
So there's got to be something that seems to be containing every single card on our page.
And that is going to be another component.
Now when we build that outside wrapping component we're going to actually take a deeper look into what
components are in react.
So let's first make a components folder and inside we will make a card list folder and in that card
list folder we're going to make a card list dot component dot JSF.
Now you don't need this stock component part but I like to add it just so that I can tell right away
what kind of file that is.
So this is our component file and we need to import react from react and we're going to export out this
card list right.
And it's going to be a functional component.
And what we want to display for now is just a containing div.
Now one of the big things about components is that they take in something called Props and props is
going to be the parameter that we get from our functional component.
Right.
So right now let's just log this out and see what this looks like because it's important for us to know
what props actually are and inside of this div I'm just going to put how low for now and let's console
logout props.
Right.
So now we know that we're logging it out when we put it on our actual application and we're going to
import it into our app file import card list
components card list card let's component.
Now let's just put this above here for now and let's not put anything into it.
Now you remember earlier when I said that there are these this props parameter.
Right.
This is actually going to be any parameter that we pass into card list.
So if here we say there is a prop called name and we pass in e law.
Right.
Then what will actually log out when we look at our app.
Is this card list that says name.
Right.
And then it says Iva so right there is our card list component.
And right here you see that we're actually locking it out.
We're logging out E.
Right.
So that prop is going to be an object of any properties that you write onto this component where it
gets used now.
Generally speaking of course we want the props that we're actually going to pass in to match the parameters
that we're actually gonna use instead of our component.
But one of the main properties that exists on this props object is one called children it will always
be there but it if there's no children it'll be null.
So what are children children are actually what you pass in between the brackets of our component that
gets called.
So if in here I say e are then the children prop will be this yeehaw.
Right.
Actually I'm even going to make it an H want just so that I can show that it's anything in between these
tags.
So now if we instead render a prop stop children gotta remember to use the squiggly brackets because
that tells that we're going to use javascript and now we see Iowa.
And this is an H1 as well so that's one of the big things about props and components.
We actually have access to props as well on our app component on the this keyword.
It gets attached to our actual class as a property called Props.
So if we want to access it we would use this stop props but because we're not using it yet there's no
reason to do so.
But in a later lesson we'll actually see what that will look like.
But for now let's just focus on our card list.
So we're adding in these prompts.
Right.
We're passing the children in because we do want that and then we're going to actually do some of the
styling to make it look more like this.
So we noticed that this is in kind of like a four column grid.
Well I actually have some of the CSX written already for us that you guys can get from the file but
I'm just going to include it and I don't want to focus too much on the CSX because it might be a little
bit too much to think about when we're trying to learn react right now.
But there is one thing I want to highlight.
So first let's make a card list.
Dot style's dot CSX and let's add that it.
So all I'm saying really really quickly is that I'm ad I'm using the new CSX grid right.
I'm setting the display to grid.
I am saying that I want the grid to make everything fit within four of these columns each one being
the size of one fraction which is essentially an equal part of the overall size of what the width of
this cordless will be.
So there's just four equal columns and then between each column there will be 20 pixels.
So let's use it and see what it looks like.
So it's import that in
and then let's put it on so let's get rid of this for now and let's put it on.
So our class name will be card if we save it.
We will see now that it was in here.
Right.
But we want everything in there as well.
So now instead of passing you all through I want to pass all of our monsters through right.
So again this map is going to generate our list of those H ones the same way.
But then it's going to put it as the children in between this div that we have as our card list component
and now if we look we see that it's in an equal grid of four equal columns.
So this is a really really fundamental thing about react is that we're just building components that
only care about one thing and our card lists component only cares about displaying cards inside of it
in some kind of configuration.
Right now the next thing we're going to look at in the next lesson is taking that idea a step further
and we're going to apply it to this card component next see in the next one.